Some years ago, a brother in Mexico from the Rorals dressed in very simple country-guard,
knocked at the door of a palatial mansion.
A man in a silicon bathrobe responded and asked what he wanted.
The witness said, if a mule should come to your door with two bags of gold, would you
accept it?
No, the householder replied, I do not understand what you're telling me.
I am a famous engineer.
The witness then asked him, what do you understand about prophecies?
The man admitted that he did not know anything about them.
Then the witness said, that is what I want to speak to you about.
I am that mule that came to your door, and the two bags of gold are these magazines, the
watchtower and the wake.
The man was impressed by the presentation of this humble witness and took the two magazines.
Did that man come into the truth?
We don't know.
But what we do know is that our humble brother gave that man an opportunity for Jehovah to
stir his heart.
In the first century, many prominent Jews hesitated to follow Jesus because they feared becoming
outcasts.
The account in the Gospel of John, chapter 12, says, many, even of the rulers, actually
put faith in him, but they would not acknowledge him because of the Pharisees so that they would
not be expelled from the synagogue.
However, some overcame social pressure and took a stand for Jesus.
The Bible tells us of Joseph of Arimathea, a reputable member of the council who took
courage and went in before Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
And the Book of Acts reports that the Word of God continued to spread and a large crowd
of priests began to be obedient to the faith.
An outstanding example of a prominent one is Saul of Tarsus, who later became the Apostle
Paul.
He was a Pharisee and one who persecuted Jewish Christians.
He admitted this, saying, I persecuted this way to the point of death, binding and handing
over to prisons both men and women.
But he changed and became a zealous preacher and an apostle.
Similarly today, some who had a high social position in this world have become believers.
What helped Saul acquire faith?
Let's let Paul tell us.
Please turn to Acts chapter 22 and we'll read verses 6 through 8.
Acts 22, 6 through 8, he says.
But as I was traveling and getting near to Damascus about midday, suddenly out of heaven
a great light flashed all around me and I fell to the ground and heard a voice say to
me, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?
I answered, who are you Lord?
And he said to me, I am Jesus the Nazarene, whom you are persecuting.
Yes, it was by Jesus miraculously appearing to Saul and identifying himself a shocking
event.
As a result, Saul completely changed his values and priorities in life.
Later he was inspired to write something that reflects an entirely different viewpoint.
Let's read it.
It's in the book of Philippians chapter 3 and notice what he says in verses 7 and 8.
Yet the things that were gains to me, I have considered loss on account of the Christ.
What is more, I do indeed consider all things to be lost on account of the excelling value
of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord.
For his sake, I have taken the loss of all things and considered them as a lot of refuse
that I may gain Christ.
What was it that moved Paul to have such a change?
Jehovah used a startling occasion to stir Paul's heart, world events, personal tragedy,
or other change circumstances, though not initiated by Jehovah, may cause a person prominent
in this system of things to reevaluate his or her life and listen to the good news.
Such a person may realize that high social status does not offer a solution to life's problems.
In the following video, note how changing circumstances can affect a person's thinking.
During my high school years, I would work at a shipyard as a third-class welder.
It was difficult in the summer times, it was real hot on the water.
And I just said, wow, if I'm going to have to do this for 30 or 40 years, I've got to
find something better.
In that period of time, success will meant a good job, a lot of money, comfort.
And so I went through college in four years and got an accounting degree.
Every time I would get a transfer, I would get promoted.
I went from Africa to Belgium, from Belgium to Scotland, Scotland back to the U.S.
and then the U.S. to Singapore.
And that was really a big jump.
Nice cars, a driver, putting a whole lot of money in the bank.
And every time I would reach one of these goals, my wife and I would sit at the table and
say, now, now we're going to be happy.
Now we're going to finally start to be able to enjoy this.
But it was like something fleeting, it just wasn't there.
The emptiness was growing bigger, the hole was getting larger, we were just perplexed.
We didn't know where to go to find any kind of joy or happiness.
Well my daughter, she had a baby shop, so baby clothes and small baby furniture.
Her and her husband ran the shop.
So they hired this young girl to help with the store and to help with their children.
But when she wasn't busy with the story with the children, she'd pull open her Bible
and she would be reading her Bible.
So they asked this young girl, do you know anybody that could study with the two kids?
She said, I have the perfect people, the perfect couple.
And so they set up a study the following week, one night during the week.
My daughter called me and said, Dad, can you come to this Bible study?
I don't know these people.
And you just need to be there to make sure it's on the up and up.
And so I came to that first Bible study and I watched it.
I just sat there amazed.
But when the study was over, I asked him, I said, would you be interested in studying with me?
You know, in the world, you may hit these goals.
But then very quickly after that, you're going way down.
And then you stay way down.
The truth brings you a constant joy.
It is there's nothing like it.
It's just complete satisfaction.
You just know now you're doing the right thing.
And it's just changed our whole life now and our whole attitude.
We are just so very content and happy.
Dear brothers, we are being encouraged to give a bold witness to prominent ones.
It's natural that at times we may feel intimidated by prominent ones and hesitate to give a witness.
But let's determine to imitate Jesus in what way?
Notice what Isaiah chapter 11 and verse 3 says about him.
And he will find a light in the fear of Jehovah.
He will not judge by what appears to his eyes.
Nor reproves simply according to what his ears hear.
Did you notice that?
So like Jesus who does not judge by what appears to his eyes,
we do not want to predetermine a person's response by their outward appearance,
their large homes, their prominence or position.
We also want to imitate the Apostle Paul in his attitude after he became a Christian.
Notice what he says in the book of Romans chapter 1.
We're going to key in in verse 16.
That's Romans chapter 1 and verse 16.
First we'll read the first part of that verse.
It says, for I am not ashamed of the good news.
Now under inspiration, he then comments on the effectiveness of preaching the good news when he says,
it, that is the good news, is in fact God's power for salvation to everyone having faith,
to the Jew first and also to the Greek.
So let's be determined to preach boldly to all,
giving Jehovah the opportunity to stir the hearts of those who listen.
Brother Anthony Morris of the governing body will now consider the final talk of this symposium.
Remember, faithless people can acquire faith, non-religious people.